---
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: REPLACE_ME
  sort-id: cm-13
---

# cm-13 - \[Configuration Management\] Data Action Mapping

## Control Statement

Develop and document a map of system data actions.

## Control Assessment Objective

a map of system data actions is developed and documented.

## Control guidance

Data actions are system operations that process personally identifiable information. The processing of such information encompasses the full information life cycle, which includes collection, generation, transformation, use, disclosure, retention, and disposal. A map of system data actions includes discrete data actions, elements of personally identifiable information being processed in the data actions, system components involved in the data actions, and the owners or operators of the system components. Understanding what personally identifiable information is being processed (e.g., the sensitivity of the personally identifiable information), how personally identifiable information is being processed (e.g., if the data action is visible to the individual or is processed in another part of the system), and by whom (e.g., individuals may have different privacy perceptions based on the entity that is processing the personally identifiable information) provides a number of contextual factors that are important to assessing the degree of privacy risk created by the system. Data maps can be illustrated in different ways, and the level of detail may vary based on the mission and business needs of the organization. The data map may be an overlay of any system design artifact that the organization is using. The development of this map may necessitate coordination between the privacy and security programs regarding the covered data actions and the components that are identified as part of the system.

# Editable Content

<!-- Make additions and edits below -->
<!-- The above represents the contents of the control as received by the profile, prior to additions. -->
<!-- If the profile makes additions to the control, they will appear below. -->
<!-- The above markdown may not be edited but you may edit the content below, and/or introduce new additions to be made by the profile. -->
<!-- If there is a yaml header at the top, parameter values may be edited. Use --set-parameters to incorporate the changes during assembly. -->
<!-- The content here will then replace what is in the profile for this control, after running profile-assemble. -->
<!-- The current profile has no added parts for this control, but you may add new ones here. -->
<!-- Each addition must have a heading either of the form ## Control my_addition_name -->
<!-- or ## Part a. (where the a. refers to one of the control statement labels.) -->
<!-- "## Control" parts are new parts added after the statement part. -->
<!-- "## Part" parts are new parts added into the top-level statement part with that label. -->
<!-- Subparts may be added with nested hash levels of the form ### My Subpart Name -->
<!-- underneath the parent ## Control or ## Part being added -->
<!-- See https://ibm.github.io/compliance-trestle/tutorials/ssp_profile_catalog_authoring/ssp_profile_catalog_authoring for guidance. -->
