---
x-trestle-set-params:
  # You may set values for parameters in the assembled Profile by adding
  #
  # profile-values:
  #   - value 1
  #   - value 2
  #
  # below a section of values:
  # The values list refers to the values in the catalog, and the profile-values represent values
  # in SetParameters of the Profile.
  #
  si-14_odp.01:
    values:
  si-14_odp.02:
    values:
  si-14_odp.03:
    values:
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: REPLACE_ME
  sort-id: si-14
---

# si-14 - \[System and Information Integrity\] Non-persistence

## Control Statement

Implement non-persistent {{ insert: param, si-14_odp.01 }} that are initiated in a known state and terminated {{ insert: param, si-14_odp.02 }}.

## Control Assessment Objective

- \[SI-14[01]\] non-persistent {{ insert: param, si-14_odp.01 }} that are initiated in a known state are implemented;

- \[SI-14[02]\] non-persistent {{ insert: param, si-14_odp.01 }} are terminated {{ insert: param, si-14_odp.02 }}.

## Control guidance

Implementation of non-persistent components and services mitigates risk from advanced persistent threats (APTs) by reducing the targeting capability of adversaries (i.e., window of opportunity and available attack surface) to initiate and complete attacks. By implementing the concept of non-persistence for selected system components, organizations can provide a trusted, known state computing resource for a specific time period that does not give adversaries sufficient time to exploit vulnerabilities in organizational systems or operating environments. Since the APT is a high-end, sophisticated threat with regard to capability, intent, and targeting, organizations assume that over an extended period, a percentage of attacks will be successful. Non-persistent system components and services are activated as required using protected information and terminated periodically or at the end of sessions. Non-persistence increases the work factor of adversaries attempting to compromise or breach organizational systems.

Non-persistence can be achieved by refreshing system components, periodically reimaging components, or using a variety of common virtualization techniques. Non-persistent services can be implemented by using virtualization techniques as part of virtual machines or as new instances of processes on physical machines (either persistent or non-persistent). The benefit of periodic refreshes of system components and services is that it does not require organizations to first determine whether compromises of components or services have occurred (something that may often be difficult to determine). The refresh of selected system components and services occurs with sufficient frequency to prevent the spread or intended impact of attacks, but not with such frequency that it makes the system unstable. Refreshes of critical components and services may be done periodically to hinder the ability of adversaries to exploit optimum windows of vulnerabilities.

# Editable Content

<!-- Make additions and edits below -->
<!-- The above represents the contents of the control as received by the profile, prior to additions. -->
<!-- If the profile makes additions to the control, they will appear below. -->
<!-- The above markdown may not be edited but you may edit the content below, and/or introduce new additions to be made by the profile. -->
<!-- If there is a yaml header at the top, parameter values may be edited. Use --set-parameters to incorporate the changes during assembly. -->
<!-- The content here will then replace what is in the profile for this control, after running profile-assemble. -->
<!-- The current profile has no added parts for this control, but you may add new ones here. -->
<!-- Each addition must have a heading either of the form ## Control my_addition_name -->
<!-- or ## Part a. (where the a. refers to one of the control statement labels.) -->
<!-- "## Control" parts are new parts added after the statement part. -->
<!-- "## Part" parts are new parts added into the top-level statement part with that label. -->
<!-- Subparts may be added with nested hash levels of the form ### My Subpart Name -->
<!-- underneath the parent ## Control or ## Part being added -->
<!-- See https://ibm.github.io/compliance-trestle/tutorials/ssp_profile_catalog_authoring/ssp_profile_catalog_authoring for guidance. -->
