---
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: REPLACE_ME
  sort-id: ac-17
---

# ac-17 - \[Access Control\] Remote Access

## Control Statement

- \[a.\] Establish and document usage restrictions, configuration/connection requirements, and implementation guidance for each type of remote access allowed; and

- \[b.\] Authorize each type of remote access to the system prior to allowing such connections.

## Control Assessment Objective

- \[AC-17a.\]

  - \[AC-17a.[01]\] usage restrictions are established and documented for each type of remote access allowed;
  - \[AC-17a.[02]\] configuration/connection requirements are established and documented for each type of remote access allowed;
  - \[AC-17a.[03]\] implementation guidance is established and documented for each type of remote access allowed;

- \[AC-17b.\] each type of remote access to the system is authorized prior to allowing such connections.

## Control guidance

Remote access is access to organizational systems (or processes acting on behalf of users) that communicate through external networks such as the Internet. Types of remote access include dial-up, broadband, and wireless. Organizations use encrypted virtual private networks (VPNs) to enhance confidentiality and integrity for remote connections. The use of encrypted VPNs provides sufficient assurance to the organization that it can effectively treat such connections as internal networks if the cryptographic mechanisms used are implemented in accordance with applicable laws, executive orders, directives, regulations, policies, standards, and guidelines. Still, VPN connections traverse external networks, and the encrypted VPN does not enhance the availability of remote connections. VPNs with encrypted tunnels can also affect the ability to adequately monitor network communications traffic for malicious code. Remote access controls apply to systems other than public web servers or systems designed for public access. Authorization of each remote access type addresses authorization prior to allowing remote access without specifying the specific formats for such authorization. While organizations may use information exchange and system connection security agreements to manage remote access connections to other systems, such agreements are addressed as part of [CA-3](#ca-3) . Enforcing access restrictions for remote access is addressed via [AC-3](#ac-3).

# Editable Content

<!-- Make additions and edits below -->
<!-- The above represents the contents of the control as received by the profile, prior to additions. -->
<!-- If the profile makes additions to the control, they will appear below. -->
<!-- The above markdown may not be edited but you may edit the content below, and/or introduce new additions to be made by the profile. -->
<!-- If there is a yaml header at the top, parameter values may be edited. Use --set-parameters to incorporate the changes during assembly. -->
<!-- The content here will then replace what is in the profile for this control, after running profile-assemble. -->
<!-- The current profile has no added parts for this control, but you may add new ones here. -->
<!-- Each addition must have a heading either of the form ## Control my_addition_name -->
<!-- or ## Part a. (where the a. refers to one of the control statement labels.) -->
<!-- "## Control" parts are new parts added after the statement part. -->
<!-- "## Part" parts are new parts added into the top-level statement part with that label. -->
<!-- Subparts may be added with nested hash levels of the form ### My Subpart Name -->
<!-- underneath the parent ## Control or ## Part being added -->
<!-- See https://ibm.github.io/compliance-trestle/tutorials/ssp_profile_catalog_authoring/ssp_profile_catalog_authoring for guidance. -->
