---
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: REPLACE_ME
  sort-id: ac-19
---

# ac-19 - \[Access Control\] Access Control for Mobile Devices

## Control Statement

- \[a.\] Establish configuration requirements, connection requirements, and implementation guidance for organization-controlled mobile devices, to include when such devices are outside of controlled areas; and

- \[b.\] Authorize the connection of mobile devices to organizational systems.

## Control Assessment Objective

- \[AC-19a.\]

  - \[AC-19a.[01]\] configuration requirements are established for organization-controlled mobile devices, including when such devices are outside of the controlled area;
  - \[AC-19a.[02]\] connection requirements are established for organization-controlled mobile devices, including when such devices are outside of the controlled area;
  - \[AC-19a.[03]\] implementation guidance is established for organization-controlled mobile devices, including when such devices are outside of the controlled area;

- \[AC-19b.\] the connection of mobile devices to organizational systems is authorized.

## Control guidance

A mobile device is a computing device that has a small form factor such that it can easily be carried by a single individual; is designed to operate without a physical connection; possesses local, non-removable or removable data storage; and includes a self-contained power source. Mobile device functionality may also include voice communication capabilities, on-board sensors that allow the device to capture information, and/or built-in features for synchronizing local data with remote locations. Examples include smart phones and tablets. Mobile devices are typically associated with a single individual. The processing, storage, and transmission capability of the mobile device may be comparable to or merely a subset of notebook/desktop systems, depending on the nature and intended purpose of the device. Protection and control of mobile devices is behavior or policy-based and requires users to take physical action to protect and control such devices when outside of controlled areas. Controlled areas are spaces for which organizations provide physical or procedural controls to meet the requirements established for protecting information and systems.

Due to the large variety of mobile devices with different characteristics and capabilities, organizational restrictions may vary for the different classes or types of such devices. Usage restrictions and specific implementation guidance for mobile devices include configuration management, device identification and authentication, implementation of mandatory protective software, scanning devices for malicious code, updating virus protection software, scanning for critical software updates and patches, conducting primary operating system (and possibly other resident software) integrity checks, and disabling unnecessary hardware.

Usage restrictions and authorization to connect may vary among organizational systems. For example, the organization may authorize the connection of mobile devices to its network and impose a set of usage restrictions, while a system owner may withhold authorization for mobile device connection to specific applications or impose additional usage restrictions before allowing mobile device connections to a system. Adequate security for mobile devices goes beyond the requirements specified in [AC-19](#ac-19) . Many safeguards for mobile devices are reflected in other controls. [AC-20](#ac-20) addresses mobile devices that are not organization-controlled.

# Editable Content

<!-- Make additions and edits below -->
<!-- The above represents the contents of the control as received by the profile, prior to additions. -->
<!-- If the profile makes additions to the control, they will appear below. -->
<!-- The above markdown may not be edited but you may edit the content below, and/or introduce new additions to be made by the profile. -->
<!-- If there is a yaml header at the top, parameter values may be edited. Use --set-parameters to incorporate the changes during assembly. -->
<!-- The content here will then replace what is in the profile for this control, after running profile-assemble. -->
<!-- The current profile has no added parts for this control, but you may add new ones here. -->
<!-- Each addition must have a heading either of the form ## Control my_addition_name -->
<!-- or ## Part a. (where the a. refers to one of the control statement labels.) -->
<!-- "## Control" parts are new parts added after the statement part. -->
<!-- "## Part" parts are new parts added into the top-level statement part with that label. -->
<!-- Subparts may be added with nested hash levels of the form ### My Subpart Name -->
<!-- underneath the parent ## Control or ## Part being added -->
<!-- See https://ibm.github.io/compliance-trestle/tutorials/ssp_profile_catalog_authoring/ssp_profile_catalog_authoring for guidance. -->
