---
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: REPLACE_ME
  sort-id: sc-20
---

# sc-20 - \[System and Communications Protection\] Secure Name/Address Resolution Service (Authoritative Source)

## Control Statement

- \[a.\] Provide additional data origin authentication and integrity verification artifacts along with the authoritative name resolution data the system returns in response to external name/address resolution queries; and

- \[b.\] Provide the means to indicate the security status of child zones and (if the child supports secure resolution services) to enable verification of a chain of trust among parent and child domains, when operating as part of a distributed, hierarchical namespace.

## Control Assessment Objective

- \[SC-20a.\]

  - \[SC-20a.[01]\] additional data origin authentication is provided along with the authoritative name resolution data that the system returns in response to external name/address resolution queries;
  - \[SC-20a.[02]\] integrity verification artifacts are provided along with the authoritative name resolution data that the system returns in response to external name/address resolution queries;

- \[SC-20b.\]

  - \[SC-20b.[01]\] the means to indicate the security status of child zones (and if the child supports secure resolution services) is provided when operating as part of a distributed, hierarchical namespace;
  - \[SC-20b.[02]\] the means to enable verification of a chain of trust among parent and child domains when operating as part of a distributed, hierarchical namespace is provided.

## Control guidance

Providing authoritative source information enables external clients, including remote Internet clients, to obtain origin authentication and integrity verification assurances for the host/service name to network address resolution information obtained through the service. Systems that provide name and address resolution services include domain name system (DNS) servers. Additional artifacts include DNS Security Extensions (DNSSEC) digital signatures and cryptographic keys. Authoritative data includes DNS resource records. The means for indicating the security status of child zones include the use of delegation signer resource records in the DNS. Systems that use technologies other than the DNS to map between host and service names and network addresses provide other means to assure the authenticity and integrity of response data.

# Editable Content

<!-- Make additions and edits below -->
<!-- The above represents the contents of the control as received by the profile, prior to additions. -->
<!-- If the profile makes additions to the control, they will appear below. -->
<!-- The above markdown may not be edited but you may edit the content below, and/or introduce new additions to be made by the profile. -->
<!-- If there is a yaml header at the top, parameter values may be edited. Use --set-parameters to incorporate the changes during assembly. -->
<!-- The content here will then replace what is in the profile for this control, after running profile-assemble. -->
<!-- The current profile has no added parts for this control, but you may add new ones here. -->
<!-- Each addition must have a heading either of the form ## Control my_addition_name -->
<!-- or ## Part a. (where the a. refers to one of the control statement labels.) -->
<!-- "## Control" parts are new parts added after the statement part. -->
<!-- "## Part" parts are new parts added into the top-level statement part with that label. -->
<!-- Subparts may be added with nested hash levels of the form ### My Subpart Name -->
<!-- underneath the parent ## Control or ## Part being added -->
<!-- See https://ibm.github.io/compliance-trestle/tutorials/ssp_profile_catalog_authoring/ssp_profile_catalog_authoring for guidance. -->
